I've spent three decades reverse
engineering the human mind to show you
how you can use it to know what
somebody's thinking when they meet you
or if somebody was telling you the truth
or lying. So, let's do something fun.
Imagine that in front of you was an
invisible deck of cards. Spread them out
in front of you. And I want you to reach
down and imagine you just grab a card at
random. Now, look at it. Look at me.
Okay, close your eyes. Hold your hand
out, please. Now, before you open your
eyes and tell us what was that card,
>> three of diamonds. H
>> open your eyes. Take a look.
[Music]
And it's not magic. I can't teach you
this. And these secrets, these habits,
they're applicable all throughout life.
Trust me, you don't want to miss the
rest of this.
>> O Pearlman walked away from Wall Street
to become the world's leading mentalist,
unlocking the skills we need
>> to read people, win trust, spot a liar,
and influence anyone.
>> My whole job is to make you believe that
I can read minds. But here is the honest
truth. That's impossible. But I read
people through small, minute details.
For example, we're hardwired from
thousands of years that if I approach
you directly with two eyes, it can
create fear versus if I turn ever so
slightly and approach you with one eye.
That one eye is less danger. So, it's
all about the smallest little nuances.
Like, think of someone, think of their
first name. I got it. Five letters,
isn't it? Tell us all what is their
first name.
>> Jules. So, this is a huge tactical
advantage when you ask your boss for a
raise or when you ask someone out on a
date. And I'll explain to you what to do
as well as how you form habits,
eliminating that fear of rejection, and
also the fast track for confidence. But
the next thing is how to improve your
memory, which is a huge secret to
success. And I have a tip. I've
repurposed the instructions on a shampoo
bottle. And the first step is what 95%
of us do wrong. So,
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because a strange way
you are, you're part of our history and
you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
O Pman,
you're a guy who can apparently read
people's minds. In fact, the book you've
just written is called Read Your Mind:
Proven Habits for Success from the
World's Greatest Mentalist. So, for
anyone that isn't familiar with your
work and what you do, why did you name
your book Read Your Mind? And can you
read my mind?
>> So, therein lies the dilemma. My whole
job is to make you believe that I can
read minds. But here is the honest
truth. I can't read minds. I wish I
could read minds. That's impossible. I
read people. Very different skill. This
is built on the world of magic. What I
do. Misdirection, influence, suggestion.
Knowing how people think indicates to me
what they think. Right? I've spent three
decades reverse engineering the human
mind. I'm teaching you habits for
success because the skills that I have
at reading people effectively, walking
into a room, taking charge, influencing
them. All of the things surrounding the
entertainment portion are things that
apply to everyone. If you can use these
secrets, these habits, they're going to
lead you to success in your personal
life, in your professional life, in your
relationships. And that's what I've
done. I think that if I had done this
same playbook and not been a mentalist,
I'd be successful at any field. They're
applicable all throughout life. You
know, I'm pausing for one second because
someone listening to this right now, I'm
always thinking about the person there
watching us.
>> And why should they be watching me right
now? That's my question. Who cares about
me? I don't know me. They don't know me.
Why should they watch this? I've studied
you. That's what I do for a living. And
I have something for you. And on
Dragon's Day, I love when you make an
offer. I love the visual of the moment
where you can change someone's life,
right? A founder, you evaluate their
company. You make them an offer. So,
this is an offer, but
it's not for now. You have to stick
around till the end. If you open it now,
it will be meaningless. At the end of
this podcast, you're going to open this
piece of paper, and I think it's going
to be something you will talk about for
years to come. You know what? Put it
somewhere, maybe right under your mug
where it never leaves our site, and
we're going to come back to this later.
>> I'm going to put
>> You know what this is? It's your future.
>> This is my future
>> 100%.
Don't open. You don't want to know your
future yet.
>> And why should they stick around and
listen? Oh, because trust me, you don't
want to miss the rest of this.
Otherwise, you'll have to see the
highlights. Put it somewhere we see it
the whole time.
>> Okay. So, I'll put it I'll put it here
>> or under your mug or anywhere we never
lose sight of it. Wonderful.
>> I'll put my mug on top of it for anyone
that can't see cuz there will be some
people listening on audio. He's just
passed me a white piece of folded up
card and I've put it underneath my mug.
>> It's an offer. You can't refuse.
>> Listen guys, we're not colluding. So,
cuz I remember watching
I remember watching the Joe Rogan
episode and wondering whether you and
Joe Rogan had colluded.
>> Yep.
>> To like do the cuz it blew my mind. So,
my objective today is to be completely
honest with my audience. And also, if I
if I see you do something, do you want
me to say it?
>> For sure.
>> Okay. Do you actually want me to say it?
>> I mean, I guess so while I'm here.
>> Okay, fine. Okay.
>> I mean, they trust you. Why do people
listen to you? Great interview
questions, but they trust you. That's
how you build an audience. Yeah, I'd
feel bad if I if I duped them. And what
is it that you think you know that the
average person doesn't know about the
human condition?
>> I know how people think. So, I think
what I learned at a certain point were
skills that are for success in life. Let
me explain to you. The fear of rejection
is something that I think is the number
one factor between failure and success
is the fear. Most people don't try to
achieve their goals because they're
fearful of what will happen if they fail
or they set themselves up for failure
instead of for success. What do I mean
by that? When I was 14, I'd walk up to a
restaurant. I talked my way into getting
a restaurant gig because I've been doing
magic trick tricks since I was 13. And I
started learning by iterating what makes
people when I walk up to them
comfortable with me, what makes them
uncomfortable. I started learning how
people think. And it's down to the
smallest little nuances. I learned that
if I approach you directly, the same way
that animals fear you when they see two
eyes versus if I turn ever so slightly
and approach your table at an angle, you
only see one eye. We're hardwired from
thousands and thousands of years of
avoiding predators. That one eye is less
danger. Animals aren't as fearful of
you. So I walk up to you, I create time
limits. I learned quickly that if I walk
up, the first thing someone thinks is,
"Oh my god, is he going to be here
long?" The next thing is, "Do they even
know this kid's working here? Is he any
good at this? Oh god, I need money. Do I
have to tip him? I didn't bring cash.
All of these thoughts that go through
your minds. They're known as
heruristics. It's how we deal with our
life every day. And if you can know what
somebody's thinking, not to perform a
mentalist trick, but know what they're
thinking when they meet you or when you
ask your boss for a raise or when you
ask a girl or a guy out on a date, you
knowing that is a huge tactical
advantage.
>> And specifically, how would you do that?
What would you say? What I would say is
in my mind as a mentalist, what I do
most is prepare. I prepare in advance
for what will work, what won't work, and
all the troubleshoots in between. Plan
A, B, C, D, all the way to Z. So in that
situation, every time I learned
something new, I learned quickly that
people didn't know if I was working at
the restaurant. Am I just some kid who
walked up to you? Well, who is this? So
I walk at an angle so they know I might
be leaving soon. I'm one foot in, I'm
one foot out. I would then say to you,
did you hear what's going on tonight?
It's your lucky day. Right away, that's
a different thing. That's a dopamine
hit. That's the same way when your phone
buzzes. That's why we're hooked. Who
texted me? What does this say? Is this a
like? Is this a comment? That's that
lottery. By me saying to you a question
that denotes positive energy without a
yes or no. You don't have a way to stop
me. If I said, "Hey, do you want to see
me do magic?" No. Get out of here. Boom.
We're done. Asking people questions that
are open-ended, that are inherently
positive, almost always generates a
great response. Did you hear why it's
your lucky night? Oh, why is it my lucky
night? And I say, "The owner brought me
in as a special treat to do something
amazing for you." So now listen to this.
The owner, they know I'm working there.
The owner brought me in. I know the
owner. Social value, social currency, as
a special treat. That means you don't
need to pay me money. They've paid the
bill. Amazing. And then to show you
something amazing. So I've given you no
point at which to say no. I've given you
very few angles to think anything but
positive. And I've done this all in
hopefully less than 10 seconds. That's
the intro. Now, you better have your
agame. I better have a trick that's
going to blow them away and capture
their attention.
>> So, let's just pause there for a second
because I think everybody, whether
you're a content creator or you're
working in sales or you're interviewing
people um to join your company, what I
what I heard there was you you created
this like positive
curiosity gap.
>> Yes.
>> Where immediately and that's also what
Mr. Beast does at the start of his
videos. He
>> the hook instantly.
>> Yeah. I hate it's like a positive
curiosity gap where you you need that
gap closed. And you said in that case,
>> they brought me in. Have you heard
what's happening tonight?
>> Yep.
>> It's amazing. You've brought me in as a
treat to do something amazing.
Immediately I need to know what this is.
>> What is this?
>> And I don't want you to leave. And then
you'd blow them away somehow.
>> I'd blow them away. But the lessons to
be learned from there are things that
I've used for the rest of my life. And
they apply so much to today's day and
age where what is the currency of our
time? Attention. This very moment that
someone's listening and watching is can
allow you to blow up a business. We have
never been in an era where your phone
having a phone can allow you to become a
global superstar to launch a business.
It's it's like 100 years ago this didn't
exist this option. So knowing how to
connect with people on an emotional
level and then knowing what does your
audience want. That's what I learned
early on. I'm just knowing how people
think and using that to entertain them.
>> And how much of it is based on my body
language? How much of it of it is based
on how I behave? Um, and I say that
because the audience, you know, that
they're all professionals working in
their careers and they're very keen to
better understand people through
observation.
>> Sure.
>> Whether it's their team members or
whether it's clients or whoever it might
be. So, I'm wondering if there's
anything I can learn to be a better
observer of the people in my life.
>> Absolutely. So, for my performances,
let's break this down. I I'm an
entertainer. That's what I do for a
living. And now, after many years,
people ask me, "How do you do it? How do
you do it?" I've realized you don't want
to know how I do it. You don't really.
If I were to guess, let's do something
fun. You have a deck of cards. Yeah.
Let's just sweeten the deal. These are
your cards, correct? This is not I've
not touched these. There's no magic
trick involved.
>> These are all cards. Yes.
>> Here's what I'd like to try for you. Put
them down in front of you, please.
>> You've mixed them up. Do you want to mix
them some more?
>> Yes, I do.
>> Please mix them as much as you'd like.
>> Just say that cuz I just saw
>> No, don't say a word.
>> Okay, there you go.
>> The moment I touch those cards, my brain
flips a switch and goes, "This is a
magic trick. That's what I know. Oh, I
know that archetype. I'm not touching
those cards. I couldn't care less about
those cards. Imagine that in front of
you instead was an invisible pack of
cards. Stephen, this is where I changed
gears where years ago I spent hours and
hours learning slight of hand. Pick up
the invisible deck, please. Just
pretend. Just like that. And I want you
to spread them out in front of you face
down. You can't see them. And Stephen,
you close your eyes. You reach down. And
here's the part where we can't collude
because they're invisible and you don't
know what you're about to do, much less
me. And I want you to reach down and
imagine you just grab a card at random,
face down. Do it for me now, please. And
stop right there. Freeze. Have I told
you what to do at this moment? Have I
said anything? Is there any way that you
could know what card you just picked in
your hand or I could know or any of
this?
>> No.
>> No. This is spontaneous, impulsive, and
in the moment. It's the gold standard
for what I do. Don't say a word. Look at
it. Look at me. Just think. The cards
are red. They're black. There's the
hearts, the diamonds, the clubs, and the
spades. There's the number cards.
There's the big cards. Ace 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 9, 10, Jack, queen, king. Close
your eyes. That's it. I'm going to take
these cards that are next to you. Oop,
sorry. And I'd like you to keep your
eyes closed if you don't mind. And this
is not a card trick, but I want a visual
for your audience. Hold your hand out,
please. And hold it as if you were
holding one card in your hand. Keep your
eyes closed. Do not open them. I'm gonna
place one card in your hand. Close your
fingers and freeze right there. Before
you open your eyes, tell us what was
that card.
>> The
three of diamonds.
>> Open your eyes. Take a look.
>> It's very It is very very difficult for
me to understand how you do that. Now,
here's the question. So, I tell you
this. If I were to teach you that you
could do it, it would take you quite
some time and you'll learn. And it was a
narrowing down of a lot of options into
one, which is a lot of what I do. I
limit your options and I read what you
are giving off because there's no magic
trick. There's no slight of hand
involved in this. Are we in agreement?
This is an invisible deck. You took out
a card. Let's put these away. But here's
where I would say what's applicable is
knowing how to read people more
effectively in your life. Not for the
sake of a trick, but knowing what
they're actually thinking. Now, if
you're watching this and you said you're
a business person, you want a tangible
takeaway for body language. You ask
yourself, was there a body language
thing? Was there something that you did
specifically? Was there a flex of an
arm? Was there a twinge of an eyebrow?
Was there something that you can see?
There are definitely markers. But what I
would describe to people is for a lot of
people, they want to know a core thing.
Is someone interested? Yes or no? And is
someone lying? Yes or no? If you could
know those two things, I think that
opens up a world of possibilities. How
many major moments of your life had to
do with if somebody liked or was
interested in what you were doing, be it
in sales or business or or per personal
or if somebody was telling you the truth
or lying? The best way to learn if
somebody's lying to you is learning
their benchmarks. Let me explain to you
what that means. Meeting somebody one
time, it's very hard to know things
about them. One-time transactions, you
can't really gauge who they are as a
person. But how many people in your life
do you meet once? Few most of the people
you meet you meet often. So a lie
detector machine, have you ever been lie
detector machined?
>> Never.
>> So the way they work is they have to ask
you questions beforehand to set your
your your benchmarks. They have to check
and they see tell me an honest answer.
Is your name Steven Bartlett? Yes. They
look at your indicators to see what
honesty looks like. And then they look
to see tell me a lie. And now they try
to compare the two to each other. So,
what I do when I watch people and
observe is I try to see what do they
look like when they're telling me the
truth. And these are fun things you
could try at home. See when somebody
tells you a story, how many details do
they insert? What's their cadence,
right? How do they speak? You can tell
when people are lying more often than
not if you observe them often. You can
see it. Do they add more details? So you
can try to find fun ways that seem to be
white lies to see what do they do when
they lie versus what do they do when
they tell the truth and then start to
trust your instincts more. I think a lot
of things that I do I've unlearned bad
habits. I think that when we were
growing up most of us had much better BS
detection systems. When you're 2, three,
four, you know if your siblings lying to
you. You know if people are lying to you
very well. you're kind of very young and
there's an instinct involved that I
think is akin to when I play ping pong.
I can't think about my shot. I just do
the shot. I don't know how I did it. My
body just goes into motion. So when I'm
performing, I am the way people always
ask me, are you doing this in every
moment of your life? No. It's tiring.
I'm focused, hyperfocused on what you're
doing and the things that I'm watching
that will give away certain elements.
And I'm influencing you. there's
misdirection and I'm guiding you in a
certain position in a certain way to
what I want you to select.
>> Say I was trying to sell you something.
>> Sure. I'm I'm we're doing a
presentation. I'm a marketing agency
owner owner and I would like you to buy
this marketing campaign from me um
instead of this one or no campaign.
>> Sure. So, what are some things you could
tell me that I should be thinking about
or doing if I'm selling to you to make
you buy what I would like you to buy?
>> Number one rule, I call this channeling
your inner mentalist. It's not about
you. It's always about them. That's been
the number one secret to my success. I
shouldn't have been I've been on all
different networks doing what I do on
CNBC. I've been on there dozens of
times. That's the financial network. How
many other magicians or mentalists have
ever been on that network? zero. It
doesn't make sense. That's a serious
network. They do finance. Why are they
bringing me on? Because I tailor my
presentations to the viewer. I don't
think about myself. A card trick is
about me. Me doing something related to
stocks and bonds and and dividends and
interest rates. That is fascinating the
person watching. The same way if I go
into a room with football players, I
make everything structured on football.
So I challenge you that when you make a
presentation like that, are you just
thinking about you or where can you
highlight the attributes of what is this
person missing? What's wrong with what
their status quo is? What are you
missing? Listen to your listen to your
consumer. Listen to your client. Listen
to your audience. They will tell you.
They will give you the answers to what
you need to give back to them. So many
people when they approach someone else,
they approach with the following. How
great am I? How great is my product? Bum
bum bum. It's all about me, me, me. This
needs to be benefitsoriented language.
All of it should be you. I want to make
your life easier. I want to make this
migration to our platform seamless.
What's currently bothering you? I want
to know all the things that you that are
your moments of resistance. What's
resisting you from saying yes? And every
time you tell me one, I want to be
prepared to check that off. That's so
funny you mentioned that. It's I know
you want no downtime. Here's how we can
ensure no downtime. Right? You want to
anticipate what they're going to say the
same way a mentalist does. But in this
case, you're not guessing cards or
numbers or names. You're guessing the
thoughts of what's keeping them from
buying your product.
>> And is that a practice per se? Would you
like if this was, you know, if I was
pitching to you and you're the CEO of
Uber Y
>> and I want you to work with my agency.
Before I go into that meeting, you know,
you talked about preparation earlier on,
do you write down or just think about
the rebuttals or the person that you're
you're contending with and then try and
tailor the presentation to a set of sort
of ideological ego factors that that
that you believe that person's coming
into the room with.
>> Right? So I write down everything.
Literally at one chapter in that book is
all about how taking notes has changed
my life. So at every show and through
every interaction that I ever have with
somebody, I write down I had a show last
night, a show the night before. I will
write down I have a shortorthhand to
make it quicker, but I will write down
everything that I did, everybody that I
met, things that I remember about them.
And I will do this immediately when I
finish the show. If I might have a meet
and greet in photos, the moment it's
done, you'll sometimes see me in an Uber
in my hotel and I'm writing furiously
everything while it's still in my mind
and fresh because information is power.
And the number one thing that people
care about is themselves, their family,
their friends, their career, right? All
of us are the star of our own movie.
You're the star of your movie. I'm the
star of my movie. Right here, the
person, man, the camera is star.
Everybody else is supporting cast. So,
think of it this way. If you can
remember things about that person, not
creepy. What if they told you something?
Last night I met somebody. She has two
children. They're three and five. Her
oldest son absolutely loves this one
YouTube star. They live I know where
they live. Like she just shared a lot of
details with me that in her mind are
kind of like Snapchats. They vanished.
They didn't vanish to me. So now that
I've written those down, I might see her
in a month, in a year, in a decade. Do
you know how great that feeling is to
somebody when you remember things they
told you? It's like winning the lottery.
It's literally like you get to do a
magic trick like I do, but people give
you credit. I will remember at shows who
hired me for the show. Oh, they know
this person now. We have a chain. We
have a referral link. I might see them
again. I guessed their ATM pin code
three years ago. It was 6124. I now know
that. I bump into them there and I don't
have a supernatural memory. Another part
of the book is how to improve your
memory, which I think is also a huge
secret to success in life that people
don't realize. We have phones now. We
think our phone does it for us. That's
not true. And I say to him, I go, "John,
I sure hope you change that pin code
from 6124." He is blown away. Stephen,
do you understand? That's not a trick. I
wrote it down. There's no I'll tell you
exactly how I did it. All I did was take
the time to review it before I got there
and made him feel special. And do you
know what he's going to do? He's going
to talk about that moment for years to
come. I've created a memory. If you can
create memorable moments for others,
they will remember you and they will
spread the word to others. And that's
how you whatever you do in life. What
you do for others is what's going to
eventually propel you to success. I
would say give gratuitously. But the
more gratuitous you give, there's this
funny way in the world where the
universe bounces back and the more I do
for others, they want to do the same for
me.
>> If you were to make that really
practical for me. So you have a
shorthand book which you write in every
time you meet someone to keep details.
>> You can do it in your phone. I do in my
phone. So I have calendar entries. Let's
be very clear. Let's give you brass tax.
I will write in I if you look at my
phone right now, the event last night
set list. I wrote down the name of the
host, his wife. They have three
children. They have twins. Like
everything about this is very fresh in
my mind and I'll remember it for a day
but then it will kind of it will
dissipate. Which tricks did I do? What
happened in the tricks? What were funny
moments that were off the cuff? Who did
I meet earlier that day? I met somebody
and again I'm writing all this stuff
down because that information is power.
That information the longer you hold it
it's a coupon with no expiration date.
And when you serve it up to that person
in fact it's the reverse. The longer you
hold on to it the more impressive it is.
>> If I met you yesterday and you told me
your favorite color is magenta and I say
it to you tomorrow. Not that exciting.
But in two years if when I meet you and
we see a car I go Stephen that's your
favorite color magenta isn't it? Not as
a trick, just there in your mind.
Dopamine. How did you remember that?
You're touched that I remember that
about you, right? That's what people
care about. People think about again
their family, their friends, their
faith, their business, all of that. The
more that you can make someone else
shine, the better it happens to you.
Everything is about when I my whole act
is geared towards making other people
look good. I was thinking about this um
quite a lot and I actually posted on my
LinkedIn this morning about the paradox
of small things um and what I said in
the post it's reflecting on Jimmy
Fallon. I was on his show this week and
he mentioned that we have this tradition
at the end of the podcast with the
guests. It's a small thing that we do at
the end of the show. And the fact that
he remembered it and told his audience
about it and he said he brought him to
tears made me realize that actually the
small things in life um that we often
overlook like remembering someone's name
or and as you said their family or some
sort of intricate personal detail,
they're so powerful because most people
don't think they matter.
>> That's it. So when one person in your
life remembers a tiny detail about you
that kind of matters to you, even your
name is something that matters to you,
it's so shockingly rare that it's so
shockingly powerful because most people
think it's so unbelievably petty.
>> And this is the I think the paradox of
small things that they're actually in
fact really big things. Well, think
about how many small things if you were
to look at your life and just have these
little roads, these like fork in the
road where one path led to this and I
have those moments where in my life
where somebody said one thing to me
sometimes off-handed they don't even
remember it and it changed the course of
my life and there's like little moments
I had one so I worked on Wall Street. I
didn't think that you could be a
magician or mentalist. It's crazy that
it never even occurred to me as an
option. But at one point I had I there's
two moments, but one of the big ones is
I'm doing something for the CFO of my
company, Meil Lynch. He does not know
that I work for the company. And I used
to do this magic trick with slight of
hand where I take five $1 bills. I hold
them, I snap, they turn to hundreds.
It's amazing. It's it's a great trick.
And at that moment, he's an Australian
guy. And he goes he goes he goes, "We
need you working here, mate." And
everyone laughs. And you know, it's it's
it's a joke I've heard a hundred times,
a thousand times. And I go, "It's funny,
sir. I do work here." and he thought it
was a joke. I broke character a little.
I go, "No, no, seriously. I work at 95
Green uh at your global technology
services department." And he looked at
me, he goes, "What are you doing working
here?" And that moment to him, I assume
was nothing. It was forgotten moments
later. But that moment changed the
course of my life because there was like
a switch in my mind that was what am I
doing working here? You know, where you
kind of like can visualize your future?
Is this my path? Is this what I'm going
to do forever? Or am I going to decide
that you live one life and I'm going to
go for it? And I think for a lot of
people who are listening to this, I'm
not saying to quit your job, but you ask
yourself, look in the mirror, is this
what I want to be doing? And I think for
a lot of people, they might want more.
Whether that's their own business,
whether it's to climb the rung of a
ladder. And it's that moment that
somebody can change your life and take
action and decide, I'm going to do it,
but also formulate a plan, be effective
and smart in your execution.
>> And in your case, you know, leaving
Maril Lynch to go and become a mentalist
is quite quite a leap. I remember
>> huge leap. Everyone thought I was crazy.
Same with Darren Brown.
>> No one said to me, "Oh, this is a great
idea." Even though I've got to tell you
the truth, most people were very happy
for me. But behind closed doors, I think
they thought this kid, you know, he's
nuts.
>> You kind of were nuts because
statistically, probabilistically, the
chance of you becoming
a quote unquote successful mentalist is
extremely low.
>> Extremely low.
>> But I mean, like there's there's
probably like a handful of mentalists
that earn a lot of money.
>> I would say it's a very low number. But
here's the question you should ask
yourself. Why not you? That like the
framing of that is always of course
there's statistics but why not me? And
so I think the way you think in your
mind, the voice in your head that tells
you that loop determines things. So it's
all about setting yourself up for
success rather than failure.
>> How much of being a mentalist is
understanding human behavior versus
>> everything? I don't even know how to
answer. It's literally that's that's I'm
a student of the human like how people
behave. But the practice of it, because
Darren Brown is um I consider him a
friend. And if I've learned anything
from him, and I do think he's the most
incredible person on and off camera,
it's that much of his work is making you
think the trick is happening here.
>> 100%.
>> But actually, the trick is happening
happening over here. And he's
misdirecting you to focus on my left
hand and the trick is taking place in my
right hand.
>> That's that couldn't be more true.
That's exactly it. But that's that is
knowing human behavior.
>> Explain to me why. I don't want to say
controlling because it sounds very
devious, but I'm controlling your
attention and your thoughts. I'm guiding
you in a certain way to either select
what I'd like or to give away something
that you feel you have not given away.
Should we should we do a fun example?
>> Sure.
>> Do you know off the top of your head how
many episodes you've had of this show?
>> I think it's roughly 500,
>> I believe. So, close your eyes. I want
to make this a visual game. You're in
this room of all different people that
you've looked at, you've seen, that you
respect, okay? Some of them could have
been guests on the show
>> and then you get a tap on the shoulder.
You turn around, you look at this
person, and it's somebody you've met
before, 100%.
And they say something to you. They've
said it to you before, and you get deja
vu, and it's something impactful. It
left an impression on you. Is that a
fair assessment?
>> Yeah. And that inherently right there,
boom, that makes you think of another
person. I don't know whether I don't
think they mentioned this other person,
but something about that takeaway or
that that thought or that moment of
clarity or wisdom made you think of
someone else in your life. It was
connected to them. This next person,
person number two, I'm calling. They
jumped over, open your eyes. When was
the last time you had spoken to that
person?
>> The person number two.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
today.
>> Today. Okay. Let's let's lean into this.
Think of their first name. Count the
letters to yourself.
Don't say it.
>> Yeah.
>> And somebody you know well, you've
spoken to them today. I watched your
eyes. You went up up up up.
Five letters, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> You asked me how I do it. You said, "Do
I study people?" You just gave it away
yourself.
There's five letters to choose from.
There's 26 in the alphabet. Pick any
letter in this person's first name. Mix
them up a little.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you grab one out and you just
decide this is the letter I want to
focus on.
>> Yeah.
>> Now, knowing you, Knowing you as an
entrepreneur, knowing you, the way you
give interviews, I think I know what you
would want to do knowing that you know
Darren Brown. You know how some of this
works. So, your instinct was to go
against your instinct because you I know
this would be obvious. You didn't think
of the first letter, did you?
>> No.
>> You didn't want to. You thought that
would give it away.
>> Yeah.
>> Because once I know that, it's easier to
figure out the rest. And then I know
there's vowels in the name. And so
inherently you said that limits my
subset. You didn't do a vowel, did you?
>> No.
>> L. Are you thinking of an L?
>> I got it. It's funny because by you
saying no, it means you gave away both.
I've written this down. Can you close
your eyes? For the viewers who are
watching this as a video, I'm going to
show them. And for everybody else to
know who's just listening in their
headphones while running or doing
something, this can't change what I
wrote down. Open it up. Open up your You
thought of an S but switched from the L.
Is that correct? Tell us all. What is
their first name?
>> Jules.
>> Jewels.
>> Working in the sales team at a startup
can be a strange experience because one
month you're chasing leads like the
future of the business depends on it,
which often it does, and then the next
month you're buried in them. Pressure
builds up and eventually it starts
clouding your judgment. Then you end up
making a reactive decision instead of an
informed one. Our sponsor, Pipe Drive,
is the number one CRM tool for small to
medium businesses made by salespeople
for salespeople. It helps you get
brutally clear on exactly where your
focus should be. It shows you what
opportunities have stalled and what is
worth your time and focus. and my team
have been using the new Pipe Drive
prospector tool, which uses AI to search
through over 400 million profiles to
find verified decision makers and shares
their contact information with you. So,
if you're interested in learning more,
head to piperive.com/ceeo
where you can get a 30-day free trial.
And that's just for my audience,
piperive.com/ce.
So, it's time to join the 100,000
companies that are already using
Piperive by going to piperive.com/ceo
now.
>> You know, you walk into rooms and people
hear that you're a mentalist. So,
they're already like somewhat on edge.
>> Yeah.
>> And you can see you can see that they're
on edge, right?
>> Yeah. You got to sweeten it because
>> So, how what do you do about that? Cuz
everywhere you go, people are going to
be like, "Fuck, this guy might be able
to guess my you know, that's what
they're thinking. They're thinking he
can guess my bank pin, so I'm going to
give nothing away." So, you must be
meeting people that are like closed off
your entire life. How do you get them to
go from closed to open up?
>> I think it's being likable. So this,
think about it. If you met somebody who
could really read your mind and I can't
read minds, just I want to be clear
throughout the process cuz people say,
"Oh, what's he trying to teach?" I can't
read minds. I'm not psychic. I am not
supernatural. I don't claim to be. You
could do this. Maybe not as well because
I think there's an inherent talent. The
same as musical talent. I can't play a
guitar. I can't sing to save my life. No
matter how much training you give me, I
will never have the voice of Harry
Styles or Ed Sheeran. It's not in the
cards for me.
>> But you're tricking me to think that my
eye movements played a role.
>> So, I will tell you this. I am tricking
you to believe that certain things are
more important than others. Your eye
movements and body language play a role,
but whether it played a 10% role, a 50%
role, 100% role, that's 100% true. My
job is to misdirect you and to use
multiple methods. Yeah.
>> So that as soon as you go down a path
and you think you got me, I jump to the
next lane, I do it a different way.
>> There's also a possibility that 0% of
that trick you just did was about my
eyes.
>> I didn't say it was about your eyes,
though, did I?
>> You said you looked up the 1 2 3 4 5.
>> That is absolutely true. Try it for
yourself, though. Honestly, try it for
yourself. How many letters somebody
counts, if they have a long name, it
takes longer to process. You aren't
going to be able to use a name and
counting the number of letters in your
day-to-day life. So, if I were to show
you how to do it, you were to attempt it
and you were to get it right 75% of the
time, which you'd be shocked that you
would, you'd then go, "Now what? Who
cares?" Most of you are not going to
take and spend the next decades learning
mentalism. Rather, I'm going to try and
take the most important parts of
mentalism and show you how you can use
them.
>> Another huge one is just confidence. How
do people build confidence? When I was
14 and I started doing this, was I this
hyperconfident teenager? No. My folks
just got divorced. My life was pretty
tumultuous. I think I did this as a way
to not have to deal with all of the
trauma and kind of sadness. And
confidence gets built over time. So,
what's a better way to fasttrack that?
For a lot of people, you walk into a
room, you have to give a presentation.
Are you nervous as hell? I think most
people would say yes. Would you agree to
that?
>> Mhm.
What can you do tomorrow to get in there
and feel like you own the room the same
way I go on TV for a million people or
right now for millions? I think there's
so much of it has to do with there's a
panic that we have in us where we take
and we fear a certain feeling which is I
have certain things that I dread doing.
Like let's say I have to call someone
and give a call of things I don't want
to say. I have to I have to turn someone
down for something. I I hate that. I'm
avoiding it at all lengths. The same way
you procrastinate things you don't want
to do. I have this little trick in my
mind where what I do is I ask myself,
what will I feel like tomorrow about
this? What will I feel like tomorrow?
What if I could fast forward my feelings
to tomorrow? And instead of just, you
know, up in the air, try it right now.
What's something that you, the listener,
don't want to do? You don't want to call
someone. You don't want to deliver bad
news. You know, this person's about to
ream you out. You're avoiding it at all
costs. You're moving in your calendar to
tomorrow, the next day. You keep doing
that. Do it now.
And I want you to set an alarm 24 hours
from now. Put it in your in your I'm not
I'm for real. Put an alarm that says
tomorrow. Write down how you feel about
this scale of 1 to 10. Right when you
finish the call, you're going to feel in
the dread before you're going to feel an
8 n 10 of dread. The next day when the
alarm goes off, ask yourself, "How do I
feel?" Most of the time you feel
nothing. Two or three. It's out of
sight, out of mind. So, what if you
could trick your brain the same way I
tricked you to think your eye movements
have anything to do with it? Trick your
own brain to see how you feel a day from
now. You feel nothing. So, what if you
can just start doing that to yourself?
Rewire your brain and say, "I'm going to
feel nothing in a day. Screw it. I'm
going to do it now." And just that trick
of getting over procrastination builds a
tremendous amount of confidence. Another
one is I would walk up to tables and
people would kick me out. They'd be
like, "Get out of here. Good dude. K."
They wouldn't pay attention to me.
things that would hurt my feelings. So
what I did is I created in my mind some
way where I have two separate
personalities. This guy was O's the
entertainer, O's the magician, now O's
the mentalist. This guy was O's
Pearlman. They don't know the real me.
That's a different guy. So when I walked
up to a table and got turned down or
rudely rejected, instead of me feeling
that pain in myself,
I pushed it somewhere else. And I go,
you know what? They didn't like the
entertainer. That's a different guy.
That's not me. And so the same way that
if you took right now a bowl of water
right here and we poured salt in the
water, it's salt water. But what if we
could take an invisible small piece of
plastic and put it right down the center
and now you pour all the salt in one
side. This side is immune. This is fresh
water. If you can do that in your own
mind, the same way that I use my tricks
to trick your mind, trick your own mind,
that will take away the sting. Because
so many of us, we don't go after our
goals because we're scared of what
happens if they don't work out. It's all
about accountability. You fear the
rejection. And if you can get over that,
it is a superpower in life. The same way
you asked me, "How did you know it was
going to work?" Because I stopped
thinking about it not working. And
people that have that singular focus on
making something work, those are the
entrepreneurs. Those are the people that
you see achieve. Those are the athletes.
Those are the people who have a
hyperfixation and focus on a goal that
they will make it happen. They manifest
it.
>> And what about communication? Your
communication style and how important
that is. Like what what are you thinking
about when you're communicating as an
entertainer to make sure people are
paying attention and they're engaged?
>> Be watching the audience all the time.
The audience never lies. So you have to
really assess what the audience is
throwing at you. And I'm seeing people
and I'm seeing are they interested? Are
they on the edge of their seat? Are they
leaning forward? Indicators of interest.
Are they sitting back and checking their
watch? Are they yawning? Obviously, you
can't do this with everybody. When I'm
in a room with a thousand people, maybe
one guy's hung over. Maybe their baby
didn't sleep last night and they had a
redeye flight. I can't know everyone,
but I can watch individuals and see how
they're reacting to me. And I can
quickly change and pivot and see how I
can continue keeping their attention.
And if I was listening to this right
now, am I turning it off? Am I fast
forwarding? Am I getting tangible
takeaways? If I get three things from
this that I can put into action
tomorrow, this is smash success. Because
if I get one thing that somebody says to
me, like one tidbit that they say, I
feel like that can change your life.
Then take action. I'm all about action
because I think in so many instances
there's no accountability. Inspiration,
motivation is garbage. I could care less
if I've inspired you. I want action.
What is your goal? Do you want to lose
weight? Do you want to make a certain
amount of money? Are you making a
million dollars next year? Is that
really going to make you happy? So, a
lot of the time we make goals that we
think of, but then we get them. You
know, I have made more money in the last
10 years than if you'd asked me 10 years
ago, I dreamt possible. Does that make
you happy? It makes life easier, but I
don't think it's just pure fulfillment.
I know a lot of people that are very,
very wealthy and they aren't happy. I'm
around a lot of wealthy people. It's
just a nature of my thing. And and I
asked myself, they're billionaires and
if this isn't making you happy, what is?
I don't think that money is always the
goal that you should attain. I
understand why I didn't have a lot of
money as a kid. So that was like a
barometer of success for me. But as I
have kids and as I see that life is
short and feel my mortality, I realize
some things are much more important than
money. But if you have a goal, let this
be the cue. Not to inspire you, but to
literally take action right now. What is
it that you want to do? I somebody
talked to me the other day said, "Man, I
love watching you run. I would love to
run." Stop. Start running tomorrow. Put
a reminder in your calendar. Literally,
tomorrow my first run. Then put one 30
days from now to make sure you're
accountable and then decide what makes
you accountable. For me, I don't like to
be embarrassed. So, I'm going to write
to 10 people that I know and tell them
I'm signing up for a 10K. So, that now
if I don't go through with it, it's
going to come up in a future
conversation and they're going to say,
"Hey, Steve, whatever happened with the
10K?" Now I have to eat humble pie with
10 different people and say to them, you
know what, I didn't do it. Oh, oh, okay,
you didn't do it. I want that to be my
motivator. Maybe your motivator is
internal, maybe it's external, but find
what motivates you and use those levers
to generate action.
>> You know, in your profession, a lot of
the like with Darren Brown, a lot of it
is he'll make you think that, like we
said earlier, like it's it's my right
hand, but actually it's my left.
>> Yep. Like how do you contend with being
someone who whose job it is to sort of
misdirect me to make me think it's my
right hand, not my left or whatever, but
then also
trying to give people information that
will make them successful in their
lives.
>> Right. Well, the ethics of it. I'm not
trying to sell you anything about being
a mind reader or a mentalist. This is a
separate pursuit. The skills surrounding
everything I do, those skills, it's like
how to win friends and influence people.
It's a book I've read over and over and
over. It's it's I don't want to say it's
dated, but it's of a different era. The
skills that allowed me to reach near the
top of my profession aren't the tricks.
There's other people that can do that.
There's other people that can do this.
There's other people that can guess your
card. So, what led me to here? Do I do
it better than them?
>> I'll let you decide that.
>> My secrets to success are the exact same
ones you can apply to your life. That's
the key. The fact that I've made it
about them, not me. How have I been on
all these TV shows? How have I had such
a wide diversity? Has nothing to do with
performing? It has to do with me turning
the mirror around. The moment you
realize that you will be successful in
your life when you start making other
people the star, thinking about them,
thinking about what's going on in their
head, that's true mentalism. What are
they thinking and how do I deliver on
that? How do I make them look good? How
do I make them like me more? How do I
win them over so that when the moment
comes for them to recommend somebody or
to give them a raise or do something,
they know that you're the person that
they think of first? And I think those
skills, again, I wouldn't, it's not
really mentalism, but it's the exact
same tools that I use. It's not guessing
numbers or names. It's knowing how to
influence others. And if I wasn't able
to influence people, none of the things
I just did would work. You would just
say, "No, I'm not going to do that."
on the skill of listening, which I I
think is also so important to what
you're saying there about being likable
and winning people over. Do you have a
system or a framework for being a great
listener? You talk about it a little bit
in the book near the end. I think you
have five ways to become a better active
listener.
>> Yes.
>> Can you run me through those?
>> Sure. Should I give you a funny story
that kind of led this off? So, I did a
party for Steven Spielberg.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, it was his father's 99th birthday.
It was pretty intimate affair.
I was noticeably nervous in my mind, not
for the performance, but to meet Stephen
Spielberg. So, he defined an era of my
childhood and I feel likely for a
billion or several billion other people.
So, at the end of the show, he comes up
to thank me and I'm I'm ready. I was
able to ask Steven Spielberg
zero questions. Do you know why? He
talked to me the whole time. He kept
asking me questions rapid fire, this and
about my life and about what drove me
and this. And I just wanted to keep
being like, "Pause. I got questions for
you. You're Steen Spielber. He made it
all about me. All about me. And I
learned it that day that that it's a
greater power to listen. And that the
most interesting person in a room tends
to be the most interested person in the
room. And that some of the people I've
seen that are the most successful, the
most authentic and genuine, they will
look you in the eye. They will lock in.
They will not be looking around at other
people. And they will give you their
100% undivided attention. And they will
ask you questions that other people
haven't asked you before. And I
challenge you, don't just do the normal
question when you meet somebody. Oh,
what do you do for a living? Oh, what?
We as soon as we do that, we go into
autopilot. I go into autopilot. And I'm
not judging you. Most people do that,
right? 50% of people have to be below
average, right? And and 49.9% are above
average. that's inherently the challenge
yourself to be the outlier and think of
a question you can ask someone if you
have time to think of it in advance or
in the moment that throws them out of
autopilot that makes them think, "Wow, I
haven't really thought of that before."
Asking questions that are not yes or no
questions are also great. Ask questions
that let them explore who they are. I
think that's a big part of active
listening. And I let the audience guide
me to what's of interest to them. When
we walked in here today, I said to think
of a favorite of of a category. If I
knew the category, would I be able to
guess what the answer was?
>> No.
>> What is the question? You know what?
Tell it to me. I don't even want I don't
want to write anything down. I want you
to just say it out loud. Give me the
question. What is the question that you
have defined the answer to? Give me that
question. Ask it to me. What is my
favorite
>> car?
>> What is my favorite car?
>> Yeah.
>> And you think there's no way I can know
that? No prior research could have
alerted me to it.
>> No prior research. No.
>> You decide the same way that you did
with jewels. I want you to think of the
name of the car, whether it's the brand,
whether it's the make, and I want you to
pick one letter out from anywhere from
from is I'm assuming it's more than one
word unless you just said Ford. I again
I don't want to lead you, but if it is
more than one word and if it's two,
three, four words, decide on one of the
words. Have you decided on one of the
words?
>> Yeah. One of the words.
>> Don't say another word. Now, see, just
saying that was interesting. Decide on
one of the words.
>> Yeah.
>> And pick one of the letters. Something
interesting to you. Grab the one letter
and just focus on that one letter.
>> Yeah.
>> You have it.
>> Now, you asked me. You said it's all
misdirection, right? The eye movements.
This all just window dressing. But you
just gave something away. You said one
of the words with a question
because you were confused. You didn't
know what to do.
If it was only one word, I would never
have said that if it was three words.
Why would it be one of the words? Of
course, it's one of the words. So, you
did one and then I think
this one went through your head. You
read you went to the last Did you think
of the last letter
of it?
>> No.
>> Okay. So, that would have been my first
guess, but now that you didn't, I'm
going to go back.
Are you thinking the letter Y?
>> No.
Maserati, Ferrari, Lamborghini. That's
not like you.
Close your eyes.
Open your eyes. I've written it down. I
can't change my mind.
>> What car is it?
>> It's uh It's my Cyber Truck.
It is your cybert truck. That's what I
thought it would be.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. I was thinking of the letter T.
>> T.
>> I did originally think of Y.
>> You did?
>> Yeah. And then I moved to to T. Yeah.
>> If I got it right every time, it would
be a magic show.
>> So sometimes when you perform, you
things must go wrong. Sometimes
>> it depends like what level they go wrong
at what scale.
>> Yeah.
>> If it goes destructively like
catastrophically wrong, it's not always
good.
>> Tell me a time when it went
catastrophically wrong.
>> Oh, so you can dig up old TV appearances
uh from 15 years ago where just you know
purely I started learning that if you do
something linear, which is if I show you
my hand and tell you where this is
going, then you have the power. What do
I mean by that? If I said, "I'm going to
guess this and then I get it wrong, then
you know I got it wrong."
>> What if you don't know the ending of the
movie? Then if I show you an alternate
ending, you don't know that the movie
wasn't supposed to end that way. So, I
learned early on that I'm not going to
let you hold the cards. I hold the
cards. So, when you even the the the
notion of get it wrong means you knew
what making it getting it right was.
Does that make sense? Yeah.
>> But what if you don't know what getting
it right was because I'm
>> doing so many different things at once
that I will eventually find a way to get
it right.
>> Mhm. You see what I mean?
>> Yeah. And have you learned any ways to
break the ice in social situations? You
I think you talk about you do you talk
about this a little bit in the book, but
um you you one of the ways that you
talked about is object sort of handling
the objection that you're assuming one
has approaching from a different angle,
but just generally in life when you meet
these people and you're trying to disarm
people.
>> Yes.
>> Is there anything else that is worth
knowing there that people can use for
their in their everyday lives?
>> I like having an inner monologue out
loud. So, I like to take things that I
know everyone is thinking
>> and open up, show some vulnerability.
So, a great way, you're in an
uncomfortable social setting. What do
you want to do? You want to shut down?
You want to be here? I think walking up
to somebody has a real power and say,
"I'm so nervous. I don't know anyone
here. Do you know anyone here?" Like
that moment of opening yourself up and I
don't want to call it oversharing
because some people take that to too
much of a degree and start, you know,
telling you too much, but showing that
you are a real person and vulnerable. I
think just it's a it's a magical quality
and I've had people that do it to me
that you gain an intimacy and a
familiarity with them very quickly that
you wouldn't have if we were just small
talking each other. Have you ever met
those people that have that instant
charisma that when they walk in the room
everyone gravitates towards them? And
you don't know what that is. What is
that quality they have? Did they train
it? Is it innate? Are they born with it?
>> Um for me I didn't have that. So I
cheated and started doing magic tricks.
I remember Jimmy Carr saying to me that,
you know, people think comedians are
depressed or whatever, but he said a
better question to ask is always, who
are you trying to cheer up,
>> right?
>> And I wonder if that's relevant at all
to your situation.
>> I think I was trying to connect with
people.
>> Yeah.
>> I think that I was nervous, a little bit
awkward. I wasn't introverted. I had no
problem walking up to strangers, but I
think that it became this just uh this
addiction
>> to watching people being amazed and
overjoyed in the reactions. I live for
the reactions. Some people that do
magic, they do it for themselves in a
guilty way. I kind of do as well because
there is a selfish angle to seeing
reactions. But to me, it's more the joy.
And to this day, what I like to say that
I do for a living is not deceive. My job
is not to fool you. My job is to create
memorable moments. Not amazing moments.
Amazing is a subset. Memorable. Because
if I amaze you and you forget it, I have
failed. I failed. It's the same as if I
walk into a movie that's an action
movie. I eat a lot of popcorn. I walk
out. 10 minutes later you say to me,
"What was the movie about?" I don't
know. Right? That I don't know. And a
month later you ask me, "Have you seen
that movie?" And I go, "Did I see that
movie?" That right there, that response
is the death for what I do. apathy
>> and in the book in page 166 you talk
about improving one's memory
>> yes
>> what do I need to know why does it
matter to improve my memory and in what
way does improving my memory help me to
connect with other people so we've
gotten to the point where we don't need
our memory right a lot of people don't
know how to drive to a place a city next
door they literally with if GPS went out
good luck right you don't know anyone's
phone numbers how many people's phone
numbers do you have memorized
>> few and far between
>> one.
>> Exactly. Tomorrow your iPhone goes away.
No, no, no Apple, no cloud, you're
screwed. You're screwed. Am I right? If
you can't get that back, your life is.
So, what do we need our memory for? I
think memory is a superpower because no
one expects you to have it anymore.
Years ago, you need now you don't. So,
I'm going to give a great example, one
that I have in my book, which is
something applicable where you can't
cheat. Cheat is I have my phone. And I
feel a lot of us, whether we're parents
or kids or teens or any stage of life
you are, you're going to meet new people
at some point soon. You meet them, you
shake their hand, you say hello, you
just forgot their name. Literally, they
just said it to you, and you forgot it.
How many times this occurred to you? I'm
guessing numerous. And now you can't
enjoy that conversation because all you
do is feel dread. Now you're looking for
someone around that you know to
introduce them and pray to God. You go,
"This is Steven. Say hello." Like, tell
them your name. You know, you want that
moment. So, I have a a a trick, a tip
for that specific situation, as well as
others for memory, but I've repurposed
the instructions on a shampoo bottle so
it sticks in your head. Shampoo bottles
have three words on the back. Lather,
rinse, repeat. Right? Lather makes your
hair smell good. Rinse cleans your hair.
Repeat, we got to sell more Pantene
Prov. So, we all know that. Everyone
knows lather, rinse, repeat. I will
describe it as this. Listen, repeat,
reply. Listen, repeat, reply. So easy.
The first step sounds silly. It's
comical. Why am I even saying this? The
first step is what 95% of us do wrong.
We don't actually listen. When you hear
that person's name, it's not a memory
issue. You never even knew the name to
begin with. Because right when you
walked up to them, just like a computer,
read, write. Very hard to read and write
at the same time for our brains. You
were thinking of something else. you
were thinking of what you were going to
say back to them in most instances. So
at that moment, the number one thing to
do is actually listen, quiet your mind.
So simple, so easy, but that's we screw
up. Right when I walk up to you, I make
sure that I've heard your name because I
instantly repeat it twice. Stephen, is
it Steve or Steven? I want to make sure
I've just said your name three times
already. Your chance of forgetting it
have gone down dramatically. The last
one is reply, which is use one of the
three following tactics. one, you could
learn how to spell it. You have a name
that can be spelled. So I go, is it
Steven with a V or a PH and you with a
V, I go, I like Steven with a V better.
That's the right way. Am I right? So now
I've associated it Steven with a V. If
it's not a name like that, if it's, you
know, Jacob, you're not going to spell
that. I'm going to say to you, uh, I
might comment. I go, Jacob, I love that
shirt. Where'd you get that from? The
V-neck. Jacob, really sharp. So now I've
created a visual hook. You're Jacob with
the V-neck shirt. Now I remember you.
Third one is is if you want you can do
something that's a connector to someone
else you know. So if I know a Stephen
it's so funny you know my sister's
dating a guy named Stephen. Small world.
So you've really quickly connected it.
That happens in 5 seconds what I just
said. Everyone likes a compliment.
Everyone likes a hook. You will not
forget that person's name for the rest
of the party. I promise you. And this
works on people of all ages. It's not a
memory issue. If you can remember your
best friend's name, you can remember the
name of somebody you met at a party
after five seconds if you practice and
do exactly what I just said. And I think
a huge part of it as someone that does
meet a lot of people is you go into the
the meetings with people and because you
don't really think the small stuff
matters. You don't think most people
don't think someone's name matters that
much. They think they're walking into
the presentation, they're pitching for a
million dollars. They're thinking about
the campaign. They're thinking about,
you know, how they're going to structure
the offer. They're not thinking about
the name being pertinent. So, you walk
in, you shake hands. Hi, Deborah. Nice
to meet you, Deborah. You walk to your
chair, you're still thinking about the
campaign, the campaign, the campaign,
and within 3 minutes, you've lost their
name. And um I do think it really has a
huge impact when I when I was reading
your book, I was thinking like, do you
know what? I don't do a good job of
that. I meet loads of people all the
time. I walk up, I say my name, they say
theirs. For me, that's not important
information,
>> right?
>> Um and and I thought, you know,
>> until you get it wrong, and then then
that's the memory they carry of you. I
would say to people, if you don't know
someone's name,
>> we think that it's a dreadful thing to
ask them again. It's an avoidable thing
with this, but I would still say that
you still showing interest and there's a
few tactics around it, but say, "Forgive
me, but I really would like to know. I
don't know why it slipped my mind. Tell
me your name again, please." I think
even that is a much better way to play
it because again, you're human, they're
human, everyone's vulnerable. I don't
think there's anything wrong with that.
So, I'm okay with letting people know
that there's a human side and humanize
it. And sometimes if I can figure it
out, I will. But I'll say, "Give me a
clue." And I go, "Help me out. Tell me
where he's like, "Oh my god." And
sometimes I have a memory hook and I'll
remember who introduced us. I go, "Oh, I
met you through Steven."
>> I've had so many founders speak to me
and say, "Why didn't this particular ad
that I ran on this platform work for
me?" Maybe the copy wasn't good, the
creative wasn't strong, but usually the
problem is they're not having the right
conversation because that ad never
reached the right person. And if you're
in B2B marketing, that is much of the
game. And this is where LinkedIn ads
solves that problem for you. Their
targeting is ridiculously specific. You
can target by job title, seniority,
company size, industry, and even
someone's skill set. And their network
includes over a billion professionals.
About 130 million of them are decision
makers. So, when you use LinkedIn ads,
you're putting your brand in front of
the right people. And LinkedIn ads also
drive the highest B2B return on ad spend
across all ad networks in my experience.
If you want to give them a try, head
over to linkedin.com/dary.
And when you spend $250 on your first
LinkedIn ads campaign, you'll get an
extra $250 credit from me for the next
one. That's linkedin.com/dary.
Terms and conditions apply. Just give me
15 seconds to explain how you can build
a viable business online. The people I
see winning in life don't have a perfect
plan. They just take the first step and
then the next and then they keep going.
They stay obsessed and they stay
consistent. And Standstorm, a platform I
co-own and one of our sponsors, is the
best first step to help turn your
knowledge into income. It only takes a
couple of minutes to launch your
business and start selling digital
products, coaching, memberships or
communities online without any tech
headaches or endless setup. Thousands of
entrepreneurs, creators, and risktakers
use Stan to take control of their
future. Because Stan is for
entrepreneurs, for those willing to put
in the work and bet on themselves. If
you're ready to start building, join us.
Launch your business today with a free
14-day trial at
stevenbartlet.stan.store.
And what else? What else should we
should my audience know about? You're
someone that focuses on the audience.
What else should they know about that
you think can directly improve their
life?
I mean, I've given you a lot of like the
core tenants that I think have made me
successful, which is eliminating that
fear of rejection, utilizing notes,
making it about other people. Uh, I
think I think wrapping things up in a
story is a huge one that we touched upon
lightly, but that
>> why why a story?
>> Because stories are remembered. Stories
are interwoven into our DNA. Each of us
have a story to tell. I think such a big
one is deciding what makes you
memorable. The more that you can become
memorable to others, the more people
talk about you, it benefits you no
matter what you do in life. When you
meet somebody, know that you're going to
weave the narrative of what they leave,
what they think of you, right? You have
to kind of their memory is malleable.
There's a trick I used to do when I was
a teenager where I would have somebody
pick a card. It was a card trick. They
would put the card back in. They would
sign it. I would throw it on the
ceiling. The deck would fall down, but
their signed card stayed stuck on the
ceiling. But when they described the
procedure back to someone else, they
would leave out the part with me
throwing the deck. Why did they forget
such an important detail? And I I
couldn't understand why. It's not that
their memory was faulty. Something
happened. I realized what it was. What I
put my attention on, they put their
attention on. Like everything in life,
if you're focused on the negative, you
start to feel negative. I when I threw
the deck up, sometimes wouldn't look up
with it. I would throw the deck up. I
wouldn't look and then I'd catch it.
Such a small minute detail. But me doing
that meant I caught the deck. No one
knew what happened. And I let them
look up and discover the card themselves
rather than me do it. Somehow in that in
their brain, they deleted that one
detail of me throwing the deck. And now
I had a miracle. And that changed my way
of thinking from there on out. Which I
said to myself, it doesn't matter what I
do. It matters what people remember. And
what's the story they tell others?
>> The thing I really learned from that is
that your focus is driving someone
else's focus. So when I'm, you know,
when I'm going through my life,
I need to make sure my focus is in the
right place, the place that I want you
to it to be. And I notic that sometimes
as a podcaster because obviously so I'm
trying to manage this conversation and
I've got these notes written in front of
me. I've got pens, books, props. I've
got a little net under front of me that
has photos in it and other bits and
pieces and all this stuff. And I do
notice that during the podcast
conversation, if I don't look up at the
guest and I start looking down a little
bit or even if I'm just looking down to
see my next bullet point or to think
about something,
>> right,
>> I distract the guest. But it also in
everyday life, the other thing that I
think we're all guilty of, and you talk
about this in your book, is um
we sometimes reach for our phone a
little bit,
>> right?
>> Your card story, that's what it said to
me. It said that, oh my god, people's
focus really is where your focus is. So
if I'm having a great conversation with
you and you're a client or something and
I just glance at my watch, you just did
it then with me again. You just glanced
down at my hand,
>> right?
>> And I never realized until you said that
card thing how important it was to make
sure my focus is in the right place.
your focus is in the right place but
also know the fact that your memory is
malleable. So in my profession I employ
all different tactics. I can tell you
one is confusion. Your brain is it's
very difficult for your brain to read
and write at the same time. So if I want
to distract you from a method and I
confuse you then it's exactly like an
etch a sketch. Maybe you've drawn a
picture and the moment you get confused
and you uh you forget what you just did
exactly and the etch of sketch has just
been shaken and now you can't recount
the series of events properly and at
that moment you've now created this
beautiful watercolor painting that
hasn't dried. I can move some of the
pieces around and I can redraw your
picture a little bit and I can change
your memory of what it is. I during
certain points when I'm performing and
this has to do when you talked about
public speaking and storytelling, I tell
you the story that you're going to tell
others and I take out the pieces I want
out. I want this gone. I want this gone.
I want this gone. I'm going to edit your
memories.
>> Give me a specific example.
>> Well, that's that's a nature of what I
do. So in in a certain routine again
what I would ask someone if I asked
somebody to think of someone important
to them and then later on I guess the
name of their first kiss
they will forget how the question was
orchestrated how I set up the initial
ask and what happened during the initial
ask and then the story they will tell to
someone else is I don't know how but he
guessed my first kiss. Now when they
tell that story he goes he told me to
think of anyone and and I thought of my
first kiss and he guessed it. What if I
didn't? What if I narrowed it down and I
actually told you to think of your first
kiss? But the initial question was think
of anyone and see all those people
swirling around your mind and then one
person comes up to you haven't seen
since elementary school. First girl you
ever kissed, you you were blown away.
Now the people that watched it have also
seen a different effect. It's known as a
dual reality. The reality one person
experiences is different than the other.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. If you walk in to a conversation
in the middle, you don't know the
context, but you know the ending.
>> Yeah. So I'm using that because again
when you tell me the methods of
mentalism, mentalism is all about group
dynamics, the way people think. If I was
performing for you in a group, it would
be utterly different and completely
easier. This one-on-one interaction is
far more difficult because I have no
lanes to weave around. It's like if I
was passing you in a car on a four-lane
highway, I've got space right now. You
and me are locked in. It's very
difficult for me to use others cuz the
way you feel next to someone else,
you'll behave differently than by
yourself. And you're someone that, you
know, started doing this at a very young
age and has developed and evolved their
skill set over time. And so you've got
five kids. And I'm I'm wondering how
important you think obsession is to get
to the very top. You've got to
>> It's a blessing. It's a blessing. If
somebody can find an obsession,
>> you've got to the top of an industry
where very few people get to the top of.
And even if they do, they don't end up
on the biggest platforms in the world.
So, thinking about the characteristics
of your success, um, for this kid, it
was obviously obsession was a huge part
of that, right?
>> Yes.
>> How old were you in this photo?
>> Uh, probably 14. Probably right when I
started a restaurant. That looks 14 to
me.
>> Okay. 14 then. And you're 43 now.
>> That's right.
>> So, you've been doing this decades and
decades and decades.
>> The majority of my life.
>> How important do you think that is to to
reach the top of any industry?
I don't know if I would say the time
matters as much because I've seen people
that are phenoms in much in much like
more compressed times. I don't want to
say that you need your 30 years.
Passion. The people that excite me the
most to be around in my life. The people
that I look up to and I'm on the edge of
my seat always have a passion. I don't
care what that's for. I don't care if
you are uh you know a trash man and your
obsession is is trash. Like something
that I would never think about. I've met
so many people where they have a topic
that meant nothing to me at the moment,
but once I start speaking to them, their
level of excitement, their their feeling
like the fact that they're so invested
makes me feel invested.
>> But to hone your skills to the point
that you can reach the peak of a
mountain. I was speaking to someone
called DJ EZ, and he was saying to me,
he spends seven hours a day, he's a
great DJ, and when I watch him, it's
like watching a magician play the decks.
And he said to me he spends seven hours
a day, sometimes listening to 700
different new tracks a day, just
listening to 20 seconds of each. And I
don't think people often get to see that
level of obsession. They see people sat
here, but they don't get to see the all
the like the messy journey to here,
>> right?
>> And I think it's so important to show
them what that messy journey to here
looks like because then they can decide
for themselves in their own life if
whatever thing they're pursuing is worth
the trade. Like is it worth it to sit
here and to be who you are now for like
that? You say worth it as if it's a
negative thing. I I think it gave a
definition to my life. I think that to
have a passion is something so few of us
I've hit the lottery in life. I get to
meet interesting people. I get to bring
joy. I get to live my dream. Everything
I do is of my own valition. Like I I
couldn't I don't even know how I'd
complain for an iota of a second. I've
won the lottery times the lottery times
the lottery. I I don't know. I It's not
even my profession. I have a mindset
where I could die tomorrow, right?
Everybody who doesn't think that way
that you don't have gratitude for today
is like I don't know. I'm a natural
optimist. I just think that
>> But I mean, what does that actually look
like? Cuz I No one no one was there to
see those what 30 20 30 years.
>> How much work was there? And is it like
you were doing it part-time? Is it free
time? Is it the shower? Are you thinking
about it in the shower? Is it
>> So I think I've been thinking about it
for decades. And now even now I it
consumes my thoughts at certain points
in time even though I try to try to also
be present in the moment. It's not like
a absolute obsession. 7 hours a day is
pretty rough but the muse of creativity
comes to me and and it's so fulfilling.
It's the same way like this book putting
this book on paper you you're an author
as well was such an exceptional
challenge because my thoughts and then
crafting them onto the page into words
and also at the end of the day who cares
about me? I I always have this mindset
of I need to prove to you. I don't come
from the assumption of you should watch
me because I'm great. I have an inverse.
I said I need to define to you why you
should be watching, why you should be
listening, why this should excite you,
why this should amaze you. Hopefully, it
inspired you to take action and you got
something tangible that will provide a
value in your life. And I wouldn't have
written the book. Trust me, the the book
I didn't need to write this book. I
wrote the book because so many people
had said to me, "We want to know what
helped you achieve success." And they're
fascinated by this pursuit. And I think
that was it. I just was driven by the
people around me that they said you
should write this. And I felt I finally
had a story to tell.
>> And what's the one thing about your
success and your new life that
if this guy knew he may have hesitated a
little bit to pursue the life that you
now have?
>> I think being very busy and success has
its pitfalls. If you assign your
self-esteem to something others can give
you, be it fame, be it money, be it
things that are intangible and that can
be taken away and you don't define your
self worth by something internal like
your own drive, competing against
yourself, creating your own goals, then
it's fleeting. Fame, for example,
there's going to be ups and downs. Every
career has a life cycle. Right now,
things are going very well. There's no
question that a certain point the peak
hits and now you go down. And it's
inevitable. And I don't think about
that. I'd like to continue the peak or
continue climbing and climbing climbing.
But when that happens, I'm aware of it
and I will not. It's not a something
that will define who I am. This is part
of it. I think having outside interests
and challenging yourself outside your
comfort zone for me, ultramarathons,
marathons, athletic pursuits that cannot
be bought. They must be earned. And I
think that's something we value more and
more in our day-to-day life because
again there's influencers, there's
people, there's followers, there's all
this stuff that I don't want to call
fickle,
but it can be bought. What can be
earned? Earned are things that you this
has been earned by you. This has been
you putting in sweat equity for decades,
believing in yourself. Each time you get
a big guest, you harness your momentum
and get a bigger guest. You've earned
this. You've created a team around you.
I think that's something notable and
that people should decide what's your
goal and as you strive towards it that's
where you feel the fulfillment for me
it's been being on the road like the mo
biggest negative is being away from my
children and wife and that's success and
I can't not do that if I want to be
successful I have to be gone a lot and
so I have to find that balance between
the two of having my kids miss me but
also creating a life for them in the
future and also juggling the fact that I
have you know major career ambitions
>> and is there anything else that my
audience might be able to take away an
action in their own lives that is in
line with maybe this this David Gogggins
quote on the front of your book learn to
master the most powerful weapon your
mind is there anything else that my
audience should be aware of so that they
can show up better in their lives um in
the pursuit of their goals
>> I think defining your goals is huge
looking yourself in the mirror and being
honest and seeing what that voice really
says to you because I just like
everybody else have had feelings of
inadequacy feelings of I'm not going to
be able to pull this off and it's not
that it's not as if I'm there's a
superhuman thing of I'm you know I'm
putting my head down I'm going to get
through it like Gogggins doesn't stop if
you ever met him he is a machine he's
amazing but he goes out and he'll tell
you he's the first one who doesn't go
want to go out and run when it's raining
and cold and freezing but you know why
he does it because he didn't want to do
it that's where the real work is when
I'm doing a workout that's exceptionally
hard when it gets to the hardest part
that's when I tell myself all of this
was easy this is where I'm actually
growing so I challenge you right now to
assign yourself a goal right now. If you
get one thing out of this podcast,
decide one thing that you want to strive
for. Define it. Define it. Don't do
these pie in the sky things. Goals that
are achievable have to be quantifiable.
Be it a number, be it something
achievable. Decide what it is and make
tomorrow the first day you go after it.
And create all of the things that will
help you succeed, not fail. Most of us
when we start a goal, the joke is you
start January 1st. everyone's starting
their fitness journey. By February, no
one's in the gym anymore. Why is that?
Why does everyone give up? Because the
hard work is at the beginning. Those
first few weeks of setting a habit in
place. I have a lot of things in here
that are all about how you form habits.
I literally put in the book proven
habits for success. It's not tricks. For
example, atomic habits had a huge impact
on me. Some of these books that show you
where's that inflection point from you
trying to do something to you ingraining
it in your muscle memory. And now it
becomes self-fulfilling. You keep doing
it because you like doing it. I didn't
love running when I started. Now running
is my vacation. I enjoy running. It
gives me a flow state. I make up new
ideas. I get to kind of check in with
myself. I think physical activity is so
important. So many of the chronic
diseases and things we have are
lifestyle choices and inactivity. We
could solve so many huge problems we
have simply by eat healthier and start
working out a little more. And nobody
wants to hear that. But you do a little
bit of hard work. you continue and you
maintain. So yeah, I I'm I'm hoping
that's useful. But that that's what I'd
want people to do. If you take action
tomorrow and start making your goals
happen, get inside your own head. That's
what I want you to do right now. But do
you remember when I had you close your
eyes and I had you see hundreds of
different people? I had you envision
people that you've met, famous people,
people that you like, people you care
about, all those different people, and
one person tapped you on the shoulder,
gave you a piece of advice. Mhm.
>> Do you remember that?
>> Yeah.
>> And that piece of advice set in motion
you thinking of jewels.
>> Yeah.
>> Who was the person who tapped you on the
shoulder, you turned around, you looked
them in the eye, and they said something
to you that changed your life, created a
memorable moment, and put in place that
domino effect. Tell me, who did you
think of?
>> Michelle Obama.
>> Open up that piece of paper.
>> Funny.
It's a photo of Michelle Obama.
She looks gorgeous there.
[Music]
>> Okay, we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest without
knowing who they're leaving it for. And
the question that's been left for you
is,
>> "Oh, fantastic.
>> If you could live forever, would you?
And why or why not?"
I think I would. I think I would. Uh, an
obsession of mine growing up has been
science fiction. My favorite books to
read, the ones that just capture my
imagination. And there are so many books
I've read about immortality.
And uh there's a book that this brings
to mind uh by Octavia E. Butler, which
is underrated. It's called Wild Seed,
and not a lot of people have read it.
It's a sci-fi book, and it's it delves
into this exact subject. And just what
would it be like to see all the people
around you pass away and the sadness and
then what would you do? Because at some
point, you'd feel empty. People just
die, right? It's kind of like think of
it as the life of an insect. Just they
disappear. They come, they go, they
come, they go. And I think that
eventually you would revert back to
being completely numb and cold. But at
the same time, death is just that abyss
that everyone, no matter how much we
avoid thinking about it, talking about
it, you're going to die. I'm going to
die. In one day, you'll have that final
breath. Will you know it's going to
happen? Will you not? What will you
think about in those moments? What will
you go into it with? Will you still have
that fear of death? I I think our whole
lives are an extension of trying to
avoid thinking about our eventual death.
I think I would love to live forever,
but I bet you once I live forever, it
would start to be a curse.
I can't wait to think of the question
I'm going to ask the next person.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you for writing
a book that inspires people to live
their better life. And I think all the
principles in here are all human
principles that focus on how we can
relate better to other people. And so
many people are struggling to connect
with other people for so many reasons.
And that's causing so much downstream
mental health issues and physiological
issues and disconnection in the world.
And we're seeing that increasingly if
you go on the internet you see a lot of
disconnection because we're struggling
to relate to people. And I think it's
you know the most I think for me the
most important byproduct of the work
that you do is you make people
curious and open-minded and there's so
much that comes from that people just
being a bit more curious and that's you
know the all people get the magic of it.
I think it makes people's minds
expansive. And if people have expansive
minds, then that might just be the
catalyst to all types of progress.
>> I love it.
>> Do you know what I'm saying? Like that
>> I think being open-minded and having a
different feeling than the usual, which
is in our day-to-day, we get into this
autopilot where yes, we feel pings of
joy, pings of anxiety, pings of
depression, pings of happiness.
>> My I told you the thing I got addicted
to was giving people this different
feeling. Yeah.
>> Which is a feeling you lose out.
Children, you see it in their eyes.
Again, it's it's a little hokey to say,
but when I see my three-year-old or my
2-year-old discover something new and
you see it through their eyes, it's a
gift. It's something you get back
because once you're an adult, you can't
have that same thing because you've
become jaded to the world. And suddenly
for them to see a a butterfly fly and
it's like this joyful experience and
seeing it through a kid's eyes, it's
honestly it it's been the greatest joy
of my life is seeing joy of my kids.
It's seeing that cuz it's in our DNA.
That's my version of immortality.
>> And humans lose that. We get more
>> humans lose that more and more. And it's
sad to me because I have lost it knowing
how I do the things I do. So to ask me
the good question is if I get fooled by
another magician or mentalist, how does
it make me feel? Amazing. It's the best
feeling. And I try immediately to hold
back the part of me that wants to know
how it was done. Because right away
there's a professional curiosity. The
same way that a movie star or a director
can't watch a movie and just think of
it. They're watching here's how you did
the camera, here's this panning shot,
here's the ISO, right? They can't
disconnect from the how the sausage is
made. Yeah.
>> I because those moments are so few and
far between. I instantly in my mind stop
I stop myself from the how and I enjoy
that wonder because it's so few for me
that I can't because I know how
everything's done. So when I get it, I
love it.
>> It's like um the day you figured out
Santa Claus wasn't real. It's like
bursting an illusion. And when I figured
out Santa Claus wasn't real, my world
got small. like the possibilities of the
world got smaller because there when
magic existed anything was possible and
that's a great place to live but when I
found out Santa Claus wasn't real I was
like oh
>> you know
>> yes
>> it's like gh there's no magic in this
world
>> right
>> and that's not a nice way to believe and
you're you're you know the work that
you're doing and the performances that
you do the entertainment you bring keeps
people's minds open and lets them
imagine be creative and believe that
there's still magic in this world and
that's a wonderful thing I highly
recommend people go get your book I'm
going to link it below and put it on
screen for anyone that wants to grab
habit. It's called Read Your Mind:
Proven Habits for Success from the
World's Greatest Mentalist. And the
people on the back are some of which are
my friends. I've got an investor of mine
on here. Um many of my former podcast
guests on here as well, like Jay Shetty
and Mark Cuban and Adam Grant. And um on
the front, David Gogggins.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me.
Thank you for putting this out in the
world. and I enjoy this. Even though
your recent one on AI scared the crap
out of me, but I'm honored to have been
a guest and I can't wait to write a
question for the next person and live
on.
>> Make sure you keep what I'm about to say
to yourself. I'm inviting 10,000 of you
to come even deeper into the diary of a
CEO. Welcome to my inner circle. This is
a brand new private community that I'm
launching to the world. We have so many
incredible things that happen that you
are never shown. We have the briefs that
are on my iPad when I'm recording the
conversation. We have clips we've never
released. We have behindthe-scenes
conversations with the guests and also
the episodes that we've never ever
released and so much more. In the
circle, you'll have direct access to me.
You can tell us what you want this show
to be, who you want us to interview, and
the types of conversations you would
love us to have. But remember, for now,
we're only inviting the first 10,000
people that join before it closes. So,
if you want to join our private close
community, head to the link in the
description below or go to
daccircle.com.
I will speak to you there.
[Music]
Hey,